From Hansel minutes, dotcom it's
Hanselman. It's a weekly discussion
with web developer and technologists.
Scott Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin.
This is Lawrence Ryan and non-STEM
show number 42 recorded Monday,
November 20th, 2006. Support for counseling it's
provided by COVID Smith tools,
makers of code Smith and
extensible template based code generator
for.net. Cancel minutes, listeners get
$100 off code Smith professional
with coupon code H M
100. online@covidsmithtools.com. Support is also
provided by dotnet developers journal.
The world's leading.net developer magazine
online at www dot
dot com. In this episode,
Scott and Carl discussed the
connection gaming. Hi, this is
Carl Franklin. You're listening to Hansel
minutes. I'm here with Scott
Hanselman. This week's topic. Scott
is next generation gaming. That's
right. You're not a gamer.
Are you Carl? You know,
no, I'm not a hardcore
gamer. I mean, I've seen
in played a few games
that I've liked and they
were a nice diversion for
awhile, but I have like
an addictive personality when it
comes to technology and things
that I like. So I
have to try very hard
to not get sucked in.
And you know, I'm sucked
into code. I'm sucked into
music and production and development,
and those are, you know,
that consumes enough of my
time and money and energy.
If I got into gaming,
I think I'd be a
freak. One of the things
about gaming in general and
the personality types of people
who will play 50 hours
or a hundred hours of
some, you know, RPG, some
role playing game is that
you kind of forget that
you're playing against another bunch
of programmers. For me, it's
like when I started playing
a game about a level
or two into it, I
go, wait a second. Am
I playing a game or
my fighting with another program
or mentally, you know, once
I figured out how the
programmer thinks, then I go
and say, all right, well
screw it. I'm not going
to go to level 80
just to see that I
am proved that I'm a
badass, but which brings us
to now the topic of
the day, which is this
notion of next generation gaming,
right? We had the PlayStation,
the regular X-Box and they
had a good run and
a lot of really cool
stuff was done with the
PlayStation two with the original
Xbox and to the limited
extent with the GameCube, although
that was to a different
audience. And now suddenly kind
of all at once, although
the Xbox three 60 has
been out for awhile now
you've got a Christmas holiday
season. That's coming up here
with the Xbox three 60
in easy availability by one,
anywhere in there about 300
bucks. And you got PS
three, where you'd actually have
to give a kidney to
get a cop to get
one of these. And they're
about 600 bucks, 600 bucks,
two versions. There's a 20
gig hard drive version. I
think there's a 60 gig,
two 60 and 80, but
you're looking at 600 bucks.
And then there's this weird
little thing from Nintendo called
the we, the Nintendo, we,
the WWI. And I've been
talking to some different guys
at work. Cause a lot
of programmers are also gamers
kind of at night about
what does it mean to
be a next generation game?
And most times people will
say, well, you know, you've
got to have high Def,
right? And we did a
high Def talk, Hey Scott,
let's get back to that
week for one sec. Before
you jump into that, my,
my kids have the Nintendo
DS, you know, the whole
Nintendo dogs was the thing
that sold them on that.
And the little portable one.
And I had a little
bit of a history with
them cause we did some
podcasts for Nintendo on the,
on the DS. But what
a w what's the diff
between that and the week?
Well, the, the, we is
really interesting. Everyone was laughing
about the name. They're saying
this is going to be
stupid. It only does four
80 P. So it doesn't
do high definition, but just
as they aimed at a
totally different market with the
game cube, the we is,
is just flat out fun
to play. The deal is
that the, we is a
tiny little thing. It's actually
smaller in size than the
Xbox three 60 add on
DVD player and an idea
of how small it's about
the size of a four
of a five by a
five and a quarter inch
internal drive for your, for
your desktop. Very small, just
like the game cube is
just so tiny. The deal
is it has a ethernet.
So it'll hook up to
the net all the time
and we'll let you download
any Nintendo game ever going
back in time. So you're
talking about Nintendo 64 Nintendo,
you know, it's NES super
Nintendo. You wanna play Mario
brothers, you wanna play whatever.
You'll be able to download
those off of the, off
the net. But the really
amazing thing about the we
that I think is, is
gonna surprise a lot of
people that they're going to
have to actually touch it
and try it is this
controller. It's got it. Doesn't
have a standard kind of
holding your hand controller. If
you want one of those,
you have to buy it
separately. It's called the wi
classic controller. It comes with
two remote controls. You hold
them in your hands, like,
like literally like a remote
control, a tiny remote control.
And if you want to
have Zelda us, you know,
the little elephant Zelda swipe
a sword, you told the
remote and you slash in,
in the air. If you
want to play tennis or
baseball or bowling, you just
make the motion natural. So
it's got gyroscopes. And then
is that how it works?
Yeah, it's got, it's got,
you know, six axes of
motion detection. Nice, totally, Totally
revolutionary kind of thing. Now
there's been lots of motion
detection devices in the, there
was the, all the gyroscopic
controllers that we saw, the,
the gyro, what is it
called? The gyro remote that
you can point it in
windows, media center and control
the mouse. But this is
basically saying we're going to
rethink how games ought to
be played. I went in,
went in, played with one
for awhile and they had
a car driving game and
I was like, well, how
are they going to adapt
this to a car driving
game? Well, you, you take
the remote control and you
hold it in your hand
lengthwise with one end in
each part of your hand
and you just rotate your
hands left and right. Like
you're holding around a steering
wheel and you drive. And
it really, really works. It's
and it's 250 bucks. That's
crazy. So for the price
of a single PlayStation, you
could buy a we and
an Xbox three 60. So
they're pricing it at the
kind of, Oh, that's fun.
Right? Let's just pick one
up. I mean, like I'm
thinking about getting one and
I'm not even in Tinto
person, right. It's, it's a
really, really clever thing. Scott,
let's get back to the
whole idea of what next
gen gaming is. Yeah. So
people usually say that next
gen gaming means high Def
and 5.1 surround. And they're
always arguing about, well, do
you want a 10 ATI
or 10 80 P right.
Do you want your high
definition to be interlaced at
10 80 horizontal lines are
progressive. Now that's the big
kind of argument right now.
Everyone says the true high
definition, which has kind of
an arguable point is 10
80 P because that's simply
the highest and best quality,
but very, very few high
Def TVs actually do that
now more and more they
do. So, you know, in
a year or two, they'll
all be like that. But
nearly all the content is
at the sweet spot, which
is seven 20. And if
you do the math, you
have to actually sit about
four feet away from a
10 80 P screen. If
that screen is about 42
inches, which is kind of
the standard size, right? If
the stand sit four feet
away to really notice the
difference. So if you're sitting
on your couch, 10 feet
away in a standard 42
inch screen, there's really no
way with normal eyesight. You
can tell the difference. So
the whole, the whole graphics
resolution argument breaks down real
quickly. There's the, the quality
of the 3d, like how
many, how strong the graphics
card is. And they say
that the Xbox three 60
and the PS three are,
are pretty darn close. I've
looked at the, the games
close up myself and they
look real similar. You know,
I, I saw what they
call a second generation game
on an Xbox. It looks
darn a lot like a
PS three game. They're saying
that at the math level,
that PS three is slightly
stronger. It's a, you know,
it's a newer machine, some
more powerful machine. It's got
more chutzpah than the Xbox
three 60, but the Xbox
three 60 has two years
of people learning how to
program to it behind it.
So it's kind of a
balance. So they'll always be
that religious VB versus C-sharp
kind of argument. You know,
they're both really awesome things,
you know, pick the one
that makes you happy. I
do think that 600 bucks
is a heck of a
lot of money to spend
on something regardless. So I
would mean I'm an Xbox
three 60 guy myself. Additionally,
the Xbox three 60 has
just recently announced. And I
guess it's coming out in
about, well, actually it should
be out by the time
this podcast goes live. We're
doing this on a Monday.
We'll go live on Wednesday,
the 23rd. So on the
22nd, they're going to allow
downloads from an Xbox of
television shows and movies in
high death. Why is this
hot? So when you say
they're going to allow who's
they, so Microsoft is going
to change the live marketplace,
which is the online site
that you log into when
you turn on your Xbox.
So, you know, Carl Franklin missed
last this week, you could
serve, go up to iTunes
and pick it up, or
you can just log into
your X-Box and pay a
buck or two and download
it in full high Def
nice. Now it's not meant
to be burned or shared,
but it's meant to be
watched. So you might theoretically
download a movie rather than
going to blockbuster. And you'd
see that movie in high
definition. So that's, that's pretty
powerful. It will be highly
compressed, but arguably a you'd
rather watch a compressed movie
at seven 20 P than
a compressed movie on a
DVD at four ADP. So
that's pretty powerful thing. So
while they're launching the PS
three and the, we they're
really aiming at different people.
I think that the PS
three is aimed at PlayStation
fans. The PSD is backward
compatible. So they're saying it'll
play any PlayStation game ever
made. I think the way
that they're doing that is
very different than the Xbox
cause the Xbox allows most
games about 250 Xbox games
to be played, but it's
all done with emulation, which
is very clever. The PS,
the excuse me, the Xbox
three 60 uses a totally
different processor, totally different architecture,
totally different graphics card. And
they have a software emulation
layer, but you can play
250 of the most popular
X-Box games on the
side. I understand that they've
actually just included a PS
to inside the thing. So
they've actually got that whole
hardware duplicated, but by doing
that, they're allowing you to
do whatever the heck you
want and live and play
any PlayStation game ever. So
it was pretty cool on
compatibility. Let's just shove the
old box in the new
box we got, because remember
the PlayStation two came out
with a big version and
then a slimmer version. This
is the thing that Sony
does. They'll come up with
the next version. When the,
when the manufacturing process becomes
cheap enough to make it
small. And you know, the
PlayStation was out for awhile
and then the PS one
came out and it was
about the size of a
CD because it became really
cheap. Right now you can
go and buy an Atari
2,600 for like 25 bucks.
Right. And if you open
it up, it's the size
of a cell phone, the
rest of it's just air,
right? It's an entire game
system on a chip. So,
you know, cool idea for
them. So the PlayStation's for
the absolute hardcore wants the
10 ADP highest quality don't
mind spending six bucks. The,
we, I I'm thinking about
getting one, just cause the
wife saw it and said,
well, this is going to
be fun. We could play
tennis together in this interactive
way. Cause she doesn't like
the controller. But when we
got the car driving controller
for the Xbox, it made
sense. So I think a
lot of casual gamers and,
and some women who have
not really been attracted to
gaming might find the way
to be really attractive playing
bowling on it as a
blast. I mean, you're literally
just moving your arm, like
you would be bowling and
it happens on screen. So
it's, it's a real kick.
And I think that it
could allow a lot of
party games, a lot of
casual games with family and
younger members to all be
involved when a Quaker first
person shooter really isn't friendly.
So I think the, we
is going to succeed when
people poo-pooed it. But the
really cool thing I think
is happening on the Xbox
side, not to sound too
much like an Xbox fan
boy is not just the
idea of reinventing this live
platform and they reinvented it
by including arcade downloads. So
if you have an Xbox,
you can download Frogger Pac-Man
Streetfighter. So they built in
an emulator and brought that
software simulator down when you
buy these games, not just
the adding of the television
and movie downloads, but this
X and a framework that
I know you're interested in.
Yeah. And this gets us
to, you know, w what's
the story for developers before
we get into  developing
games used to be like,
you know, you know, it
was the sort of the
dream job of the, of
the hacker slacker, right? The
hacker used to be motivated
by the fact that, well,
if I can just break
into enough systems, you know,
somebody will hire me eventually
to keep the, you know,
the, the nasties out exactly
as a resume. And I
think the same thing is
going on with gamers. Like
if I just play enough
halo and I can understand
the mind of the programmer,
then I can learn how
to program games and then
get a glorious job somewhere
working for electronic arts or
something like that. It, the
counter strike dream. Right. Right.
When, when, when half-life one
came out, it included an
SDK, which was a really
revolutionary idea, like here's our
game. And here's a way
to make your own using
our engine. And a bunch
of kids in college wrote
Counterstrike. And it became the
most played game on the
internet for a number of
years and still is really
up there. And it was
written as a mod and
then it became a whole
world and these guys became
game designers. So what I
think is cool about X
and a, which is a,
the Microsoft framework and game
studio based on express is
that by Christmas time, what
you'll do is you'll, you'll
spend 99 bucks, it's a
yearly subscription and you'll become
part of the, this X
and a club that will
let you publish your games
that you wrote in C-sharp
up to a community site.
And people who have paid
this money, this, this $99
kind of initiation fee will
be able to download your
games as well. And so,
yeah, it's pretty sweet. So
X and a is this
is framework. It's a direct
X based kind of framework,
but it's a, it's a
managed library or series of
libraries. That's kind of based
on direct X that is
really, really focused at making
games. So it's almost like
someone said, we need a
base class library, like the
dominant base class library, but
we want it to be
focused on nothing but games,
controller management, just abstracting, all
that stuff away, taking all
the direct X APIs and
making it simpler while managed
direct X, or I think
they used to call it
MDX was really just managed
API on top of direct
X. So you could look@itasalmostliketheway.net
three O is just trying
to abstract the fundamental business
problems that business people have.
XMA is abstracting away. The
fundamental problems that gamers game
developers have a way and
giving them on kind of
all that managed stuff. So
it's basically based on the
development environment is based on
express like visuals, visual, sharp
express. So you get a
visual studio like environment. And
then there's also a thing
called the content pipeline, which
is the creation of 3d
content. It makes it easier
to manage all of your
assets when gamers are creating
textures and sprites and, and
three D models. Those are
called assets. So there's a
content pipeline, cause you might
have a developer who's making
the game engine while there's
a content or asset maker.
Who's going to be the
artist creating all the content.
So the management of that
kind of stuff. So You'll
pay this money and it'll
let you write games based
on the X and a
framework. And the, the runtime
is going to be free
and to develop, it'll be
a hundred bucks a year,
but eventually you'll be able
to publish this stuff out.
And then it has a
cross compiler. So basically it's
got a custom version of
the dotnet runtime for the
Xbox three 60. So that'd
be a platform that you
will compile to. And then
you'll compile to Vista as
well. Although right now the
development environment only works on
XP service pack two. So
theoretically anyone with XP service
back to Vista, basically windows
or X-Box will be able
to play one of these
games. And this is a
really interesting move from Microsoft
because I was at target
a couple of days ago
and I saw a game
that looked like it was
a game for a console,
right? It had the DVD
case, the standard size, the
standard, a banner across the
top. And I picked it
up thinking it was an
Xbox game. It said games
for windows. So is a
Branding and a re a
restyling of gaming as if
windows itself and your PC
Wars. It was a console
and this is a movement.
I think that you're going
to see in Vista and
the new games, Explorer, which
if you go in Vista
and you look for the
games, explore, there's a section
there in Invista that will
say, here are your games.
You'll have a picture of
the box of the game.
You can click on the
game. And it'll say, we
recommend a windows experience index
of four for this game.
And your hardware is a
3.5. So it's kind of
an integrated experience as well
as an integrated install and
run experience. You want to
just put the game in
and have it work. And
that's part of this whole
games for windows. It's kind
of like, it's like plays
for sure, but for games,
Well, you have a certain
amount of infrastructure in the
box with when you run
Vista that you don't necessarily
have with XP. XP has
been around for a long
time and it didn't come
with direct X if I'm
not mistaken. Right. Right. And
then direct X is now
on version 9.0 sub version
three. And there's also the
direct X shaders. These are
these pixel shaders. There's a
thing called shader model 2.0,
which basically all the new
fancy video cards have. But
I think they're basically saying
if you're spending 400 bucks,
the price of a console
on a video card, you're
serious about your games working.
We would like the infrastructure
for all of your games
to work appropriately. You spend
400 bucks for a console
on a board. Like you've
got a pretty kick ass
video card if I understand,
right. Yeah. I was gonna
mention that I've got, you
know, for a person who
isn't like a hardcore gamer,
my video card is a
little over the top. One
of the reasons that I
got such a fast video
card and I have a
one that has two dual
channel DVI, five, 12 Meg
chips on it. So it's
basically two video cards. So
I could run two of
those big Delmon 30 inch
monitors if I wanted. Right.
So you're in a sweet
spot. You probably have, and
this is an Nvidia card
or, And Nvidia chips. And
the reason that I, reason
that I have that is
because video rendering uses the
GPU. So when you're sitting
there and you've got like
a, you know, a two
hour video or something like
that, that you need to,
you know, with a whole
bunch of different tracks and
fades and wipes and blends
and titles and everything else,
when you render that down,
you know, if you don't
have a fast GPU, you're,
you're going to have to
run it overnight. Yeah, exactly.
Or more. And I was
very happy to see that
the software I'm using, which
is Sony Vegas video, which
is run on.net to, Oh,
by the way, also has
support for network rendering, which
is very cool. You can
right. Pallet game delegating. We
used to do that with
what was that thing called?
It was a Ray tracer
back in the day. And
you basically had as many
machines as you could throw
at it. And I think
that all the big Pixar
and those guys have fields
and fields of Linux boxes
that do parallel rendering, You
can basically five minutes and
you've got your movie. But
I know the thing I
wanted to say is when
I just got this new
mother system online and I've
been editing a video with
it, and when I got
it, it came the video
card with a Laura Croft
tomb, Raider, you know, nine
or whatever it is or
whatever the latest tomb Raider
is. Sure. And I popped
that thing in and I
ran it at the native
resolution of the 30 inch
monitor, 2048 by something. Yeah.
And 50 by whatever, 19
two or something like that.
And the thing ran at
60 frames per second. That's
hot at that resolution. Wow.
Yeah. I mean, that's crazy.
That's the kind of stuff
I was very impressed. Yeah.
And, and, and, and soon
that video card, you know,
a year or two, that'll
just be on the motherboard,
it'll just be standard. And
you expect that kind of,
you expect that kind of
quality. Right. Right. And you,
and you'd hate to have
to go through a whole
big convoluted set up process
to make, to make that
experience work. You'd like to
put the CD and have
it just happen. Yeah. It
was pretty, so there's the
movement for games, for windows
on Vista, which is the,
if you've got a machine
and it has an experience
index at a certain amount
that says that you're going
to have a good experience,
you've got a good video
card and a good processor.
Your Vista box should work
like a console. So I
think next generation gaming, isn't
just a decision about PS
three versus X-Box three 60
versus wi but it's also
the, maybe I'll put that
money into my video card
and we'll start seeing things
like, you know, call of
duty three, which you can
totally get for, for your
Vista box and have a
great experience or brothers in
arms or some of these
games. So people will look
at that as being another
kind of a console. They
won't necessarily be on a
giant monitor, but it'll be
a good experience in a,
in a different kind of
experience. But I think that
Microsoft's making some pretty ballsy
moves, frankly, forgive my French
for, for saying, we're going
to support you putting user
code Homebrew code on, on
an Xbox. Cause you know,
that there's the whole, you
know, PSP, the PlayStation portable
has actually been updating the
firmware like every other month
to keep the hackers from,
from hacking. Like you said,
people have broken into the
PSP and they've included all
sorts of cool things, emulators
for, you know, older arcade
games, outlook style, personal managers,
personal information managers. And then
the, the next version of
the Sony firmware shuts it
out, locks it down. I
think the issue is that
the hackers hate to see
really awesome hardware in their
living room that they can't
do anything with. I mean
the Xbox itself. And you
mentioned this to me offline
Carl, that the X-Box the
original Xbox has some really
great media center software. That's
an alternative to media center,
right. You know, people are
starting to hack into their
Xboxes as long as they
don't take them on live
or they'll put a switch
on the Xbox to prevent
the Xbox from being banned.
Because the, if Microsoft sees
a modified, X-Box go onto
their network. They'll, they'll shut
it down remotely. They'll, they'll
make it sick. But people
are using these X-Box as,
as medium poor man's media
centers. And they're actually pretty
darn functional. Why not? Let
us write the code in
C sharp, do our own
thing and give us a
sandbox to play in. And
I'm pretty stoked about it.
I think you're gonna see
a new generation of game
developers. You're going to see
young people get excited about
this kind of stuff. I
do wish they had a
VB version of this X
and a toolkit. That is
interesting. I don't know the
technical reasons for that, but
it is, it is. C-sharp
only it's dot net three
O and C sharp express
C sharp express. And what
it is actually is it's
a custom implementation, none of
the.net framework, but the dotnet
compact framework, which I don't
know. I don't know the
difference. There there's some subset
of API APIs, a lot
of stuff missing. It's more
like the AP. It's more
like the compact framework that
you would be running on
your smartphone than it is
like the compact framework. You'd
be running on your full
on Vista box. But if
you simply use their APIs,
you develop your game. You
don't worry about those kinds
of things. You just use
the APS that are given
to you when, when the
version comes out, that lets
you in this, this Christmas
that lets you put this
onto your Xbox, you just
say, Oh yeah. And target
the Xbox and it'll just
work. So then you'll be
able to play your games
on windows and on the
three 60 and share them
with people. So I think
it's only a matter of
time before we see a
really kick ass game that
was written entirely by regular
folk, turn into something that,
you know, someone could charge
money for it. So I
think that next generation gaming
kind of like to sum
up is less about the
technology and the hardware and
more about what the experience
is going to be like,
let me just kind of
sum it up like this.
I I'm playing this game
called gears of war. It's
a violent game. It's a
shooter and it's not for
the squeamish. I wouldn't recommend
it for anyone. That was
a, you know, anyway, you
should be playing this. If
you're out of high school,
frankly, it's pretty buddy. But
you know, you could just
say, Oh, well I as
a shooter, but this game,
yes, it's got great graphics
and yes, it's got Dolby,
but rather than a first
person kind of walk around
on a rail up, down
left, right. You know, halo
type thing, which is, we've
all seen a million times
before. It's, it's done with
a camera over the guy's
shoulder. So it's a third
person over the shoulder. And
as you run the camera,
it kind of rocks back
and forth as if you
were being chased almost by
like a, a wartime journalist
who is following you with
a camera and the faster
you run, the more the
camera shakes. If you, if
you're, you don't have, it's
cool. It's really immersive. Cool
gives you the sense that
you're really there. And as
you shoot, you don't have
a shooting. When you call
it a shooting ridicule or
a heads up display, you
don't get an aiming deal
unless you actually sit down
and aim the thing, you
can run up against barriers.
Or like if someone had
overturned a couch or a
car, you can go and
slam yourself up against it
and then use it as
cover. And then shoot blindly
by like just putting your
gun up over your head
and shooting over the car.
But of course you're gonna
be less likely to hit
something than if you were
actually aiming. And the cool
part is that, you know,
you spend a lot of
time managing the camera when
you spend, when you play
these games, right. Basically one
of the thumb sticks on
the controller manages your head,
but they've got a button,
the top button on the
control of the Y button,
which is the look at
interesting stuff. When it happens
button, which is such a
clever idea because you spend
so much time managing the,
where am I looking, where
my feet, that can be
really frustrating. But if you
hear a noise, maybe a
rumbling, maybe there's bad guys
coming, or a door has
been knocked down, you hit
this button and it'll automatically
turn yourself towards that thing.
That's making the noise and
then tell you what the
heck you're looking at. So
these bugs come out of
the ground. You hear this
rumbling off the screen, you
push this button, turns your
head towards it and says,
emergence hole. Someone's coming out
of a hole. Bad guys
are coming. Wow. You know,
that's so it's context sensitive,
right? And that's about, that's
about usability. It has nothing
to do with the graphics,
which gets to the whole
thing about the, we, if
I want to play, you
know, bat and hit a
ball with a baseball, like
a baseball bat, I swing
it. And we skip for
now, how do you spell
that? We it's it's WWI.
So wwi.com or shrinks or
slash K five H I
think wii.com is a little
easier, which gets into the
Sony. The Sony has the
identical controller as the PlayStation
two, which that controller used
to rumble. Like, you know,
if you get hit, the
thing would shake. They've removed
that feature and introduced a
axis six axis. So you
can turn it, move it
side to side forward and
backward on any of six
axes. Now they haven't pushed
that as much as the,
we cause the we as
a whole new way of
thinking about controllers. I mean,
if you want a regular
old controller, like I said,
you have to buy one,
right? Almost all the games
are different. You play legend
to Zelda. You move with
one hand and you swing
your sword with the other.
Well, a PlayStation there'll be
more traditional ones, but they
may make it. So if
you're boxing, you, you push
the controller quickly forward. Or
if someone in a game
is trying to grab your
gun, you shake the controller
back and forth, but they're
still kind of working those
things out. The Sony is
gonna, but it has that
capability of the PlayStation three.
They also have the capability
to plug your PlayStation portable
into the, the PlayStation three
as like a possible alternative
monitor. So like, imagine like
you're playing a star Trek
game. It might be your
tri-quarter. So you'd look down
at your PlayStation portable and
it would have another screen
and tell you something about
radar or something that's happening
around you. I already have
this one thing with thumb
controls on, in your right
hand or your main hand,
and then this other sort
of contoured joystick type, alternative
thing and your other. And
it could, What you might
think about this. You might
take the PlayStation portable, put
it next to your height,
your high Def TV. And
it may be it's your,
your rear view mirror or,
or whatever. Those are the
kinds of things. And they're
all going to be chances,
right? We're all taking chances.
They're there. They don't know
which one of those is
going to define next generation
gaming. But the whole point
of gaming, right, is to
be immersed on the play
on the Xbox. It's a
standard controller and a high
Def TV. But wow. I
felt immersed just by the
way, the camera moved, like
the difference between call of
duty two, which is a
first generation Xbox game in
call of duty three, just
changes in the way the
smoke is rendered changes in
the way the, the gaming
experiences makes it another generation.
It makes us a whole
new way of thinking about
gaming. I think it's pretty
cool that the, we people,
the, the Nintendo people are,
are so edgy, that they
would take a chance on
this, a whole new way
of thinking about controlling. We've
always been cutting edge in
terms of what you can
do with video games. I
mean, who would have thought,
you know, a virtual dog
on a screen, you know,
taking the gotcha. They carry,
they think they're real. They
carry them around. Like my
kids, my kids are completely
obsessed. And I say, we're
because, you know, they have
add also yeah. These things
burn out and the dog
dies and forget it. It's
like those little pendants kids
used to carry around with
a little tiny top 100
screen Tamagotchi. Yeah. And they
would basically, you know, keep
this animal alive, this virtual
animal. Right. So, yeah. So
Nintendo's always been, you know,
about not just the going
for the, you know, they
do shoot them ups, but
they also go for these
alternative kind of things. And
they've always been Chasing the
hardware. None of the integrity
hardware claims to be the
cutting edge. They're really more
focused on the gaming experience.
And frankly, they're winning me.
I mean, I'll probably pick
up a weed because it
seems like such a clever
idea. If you've got a,
you know, a bunch of
family members over and you
want to play something casual,
play a little baseball, play
a little tennis. I think
it's a lot more fun
to, to use the control.
Like I hope the PlayStation
does the same thing and
uses the controller. The biggest
problem for me with video
games, Scott is just what
you were saying, you know,
pick up the thing and
do a little tennis. I
mean, you know, most, most
of the time the learning
curve on some of these
games is just like, you
know, by the time you
figured it out, you know,
the guests are ready to
leave. Yeah, exactly. And I
like stuff that's discoverable. That's
simple, you know, that, you
know, within 20, 30 seconds
you can be playing the
game. Well, you know, here's
an interesting marketing thing. Take
a look@thewe.com, right? we.com. And
they've got a thing called
that we showcase gallery. And
this is very clever. I
got to give them to
this. I'm like marketing side
that they beat. They kind
of beat everybody is they
basically put a bunch of
random people in a room.
They put a camera pointing
at them. So you get
their face shot and they
record them experiencing the controller
for the first time. Yeah.
They don't even show what's
happening on the screen. Basically.
They just like, here's some
people and their experience in
the controller, you see them
make mistakes and learn and
eventually kind of get a
certain sense of, Oh, wow.
This is, this is cool.
I get this. It's like
the very first time you
touch an iPod and you
just go, Oh, neat. Yeah,
I totally, I totally get
this. I think that's clever.
And they basically have this
gallery and it's a world
gallery. So they'll say here's
people in Spain learning to
use it. Here's a family
in Japan playing baseball. Here's
a random lady in New York
learning to play tennis and
they just move the controller
in a natural way. And
it, it works. I think
that it's interesting to see
these different gaming systems taking
a different tack. You've got
Microsoft, they've got the connected
living room, you know, being
able to download games, connect
to your pictures, your digital,
you know, your digital pictures.
I had people over yesterday,
I plugged in my digital
camera and I show them
a slide show. You know,
it just works. You got
the PlayStation, totally cutting edge,
10 ADP, super high Def
highest quality hardware, you know,
and it plays every PlayStation
game ever. So they're not
going to risk losing anyone
on the, in the PlayStation
world. Then you've got the
wee for ADP, but a
totally different kind of way
about thinking about how to
interact with the system. And
then you've got Vista trying
to exploit the, the hardware
that you've got sitting on
your desk already. Right. Your
machine on your running Vista.
Right. In fact, I'm just
installing it now. And you're,
it's, you're running the 64
bit version. No, no. The
64 bit version requires registered
drivers of which there are
none. So, Oh, that sucks.
If I didn't want it
to use the hardware. Yeah.
I could run that. But
Vista out of the box
should be a great gaming
system for pretty much any
box. You know, Scott, you
were talking about media center
stuff and have you seen
photo story? Yeah. I have
photo story makes videos with
pans and movement with integrated
audio. Right. So you know
that, you know, the great
media center feature of the,
the slide show with things
move across in fade in
and out of each other.
Right. It's very subtle, but
it makes the slideshow feel
more. Yeah. The Ken burns
effect, I call that. Exactly.
So the photo photo story
does that, you just pointed
at the pictures that you
want to use and you
give it a background music
track and then also record
your microphone. Right. And then
it just shows you these
things and it compiles it
all to a WMV at
the same time. And when
you're done, you, you know,
you narrate the pictures, Oh,
this is when you know,
we went to blah, blah,
blah. Oh, here we go
with this and that. And
you get some background music
and you get your microphone.
And it's pretty cool that
you can just take this
video and then send it
to somebody and say here,
check out these photos. The
photo story is at shrinks.com/k
five L and Scott, Before
we wrap up, are there
any other resources that you
wanted to point out before
we, the, the XMA stuff,
the fact is at a
stir slash , you can
learn more about Xbox three
60 homebrew@ashrinkerslashkfivegofcoursewementionedwedotcomorwi.com definitely check out
also a non to tech
did a X-Box versus P
S three, very technical kind
of at the CPU level
showcase at a shrink store
slash K five J info.
And the PlayStation three is
at the PlayStation site in
the U S at shrinks
or slash K five K.
There's an interesting video up
on YouTube at shrinks slash
K five E where they
basically explain what the point
of XMA is and what
you can do with it.
And, you know, I think
you brought up a good
thing, even though that discussion
of photo story might seem
kind of orthogonal to the
discussion. It really gets to
the issue of what are
we using all this systems
for it's to create and
to kind of reach out.
And I think that whether
it be the X and
a letting you write your
own games, the idea that
a 15 year old kid
might be able to sit
down and write their own
video game, or my mom
could sit down and write
a narrated slideshow with all
of the photos that she's
got from trips and then
send it to someone. And
it would just work kind
of gets to the whole
point of all these machines,
which is having a really
good experience. And I think
that the next four or
five years of, of hardware
of, of consumer hardware is
all about the experience, right?
I mean, the Zune that
the Microsoft just released is
an attempt at, you know,
Microsoft said, well, we like
the iPod, but we feel
that the experience is about
socializing. So we want to
be able to transmit music
from device to device wirelessly,
all of this, just trying
to push the, the extent
of experience. We should probably
do a show on UX,
on user experience and kind
of the, the Renaissance that's
happening around experience on the,
on the web and architecting
a really good experience for
a user as Richard Campbell says.
And every time somebody says
the phrase web 2.0 and
other startup dies. Yeah, totally.
All right, Scott, that's a
great show, a little off
track from the usual developer
topics, but very interesting, even
for a non, you know,
extreme gamer such as myself
on geek gamer. Yeah. So
thanks very much. And thanks
for listening and we'll see
you next week on Hansen
minutes.